website/docs: endpoint devices (#18634)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/endpoint-devices/authentik-agent/agent-deployment/linux.md

---
title: Deploy authentik Agent on Linux
sidebar_label: Linux
tags: [authentik Agent, linux, deploy, packages]
---

## What can it do

> - Retrieves information about the host for use in authentik, see [Device Compliance](../../device-compliance/index.mdx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Retrieves information about the host and reports it to authentik, see [Device Compliance](../../device-compliance/index.mdx).
```

- Authorize Sudo elevation, see [Sudo authorization](../../device-authentication/sudo-authorization.md).
- SSH to Linux hosts using authentik credentials, see [SSH authentication](../../device-authentication/ssh-authentication.mdx).
- Authenticate CLI applications using authentik credentials, see [CLI application authentication](../../device-authentication/cli-app-authentication/index.mdx).

## Prerequisites

You must [configure your authentik deployment](../configuration.md) to support the authentik Agent.

## Install the authentik Agent in Linux

(TODO - guide via UI)

Follow these steps to install the authentik Agent on your Linux device:

1. Open a Terminal session and install the required GPG key:

    ```sh
    curl -fsSL https://pkg.goauthentik.io/keys/gpg-key.asc | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/authentik-keyring.gpg
    ```

2. Add the repository:

>     ```sh

Reviewer: or this

    echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/authentik-keyring.gpg] https://pkg.goauthentik.io stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/authentik.list
    ```

3. Update your repositories and install the authentik Agent packages:

>     ```sh

Reviewer: or this

sudo apt update
sudo apt install authentik-cli authentik-agent authentik-sysd
```

4. Confirm that the authentik Agent is installed by entering the following command: `ak`
   You should see a response that starts with: `authentik CLI v<version_number>`

## Enable device authentication

To enable [device authentication features](../../device-authentication/index.mdx), you must connect the device to an authentik deployment. To do so, follow these steps:

1. Open a Terminal session and run the following command:

```sh
ak config setup --authentik-url <authentik_FQDN>
```

2. A browser will open and direct you to the authentik login page. Once authenticated, the authentik Agent will be configured.

## Enable device compliance and accepting SSH connections

To enable [device compliance features](../../device-compliance/index.mdx) and the device [accepting SSH connections](../../device-authentication/ssh-authentication.mdx), you must join the device to an authentik domain. This can be done via the CLI or by editing a configuration file.

### CLI

1. Open a Terminal session and run the following command:

```sh

> ak-sysd domains join <name_for_authentik_domain> -a <authentik_FQDN>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ak-sysd domains join <deployment_name> --authentik-url https://authentik.company
```

+ i dont think -a is documented anywhere, better off not using shorthand in the docs

> ak-sysd domains join <name_for_authentik_domain> -a <authentik_FQDN>

Reviewer: same here for fqdn

```

> - `name_for_authentik_domain` is the name that will be used to identify the authentik deployment on the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `deployment_name` is the name that will be used to identify the authentik deployment on the device.
```

---
title: Deploy authentik Agent on Linux
sidebar_label: Linux
tags: [authentik Agent, linux, deploy, packages]
---

> ## What it can do

Reviewer 2: Let's avoid using "it" in headers/titles. I thought I made this comment already... no idea what happened to my previsou comment.

> - Retrieves information about the host and reports it to authentik, see [Device Compliance](../../device-compliance/index.mdx).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Retrieves information about the host and reports it to authentik; see [Device Compliance](../../device-compliance/index.mdx).
```

- Authorize Sudo elevation, see [Sudo authorization](../../device-authentication/sudo-authorization.md).

> - SSH to Linux hosts using authentik credentials, see [SSH authentication](../../device-authentication/ssh-authentication.mdx).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- SSH to Linux hosts using authentik credentials; see [SSH authentication](../../device-authentication/ssh-authentication.mdx).
```

> - Authenticate CLI applications using authentik credentials, see [CLI application authentication](../../device-authentication/cli-app-authentication/index.mdx).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Authenticate CLI applications using authentik credentials; see [CLI application authentication](../../device-authentication/cli-app-authentication/index.mdx).
```

## Install the authentik Agent on Linux

(TODO - guide via UI)

Follow these steps to install the authentik Agent on your Linux device:

1. Open a Terminal session and install the required GPG key:

```sh
curl -fsSL https://pkg.goauthentik.io/keys/gpg-key.asc | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/authentik-keyring.gpg
```

2. Add the repository:

```sh
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/authentik-keyring.gpg] https://pkg.goauthentik.io stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/authentik.list
```

3. Update your repositories and install the authentik Agent packages:

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install authentik-cli authentik-agent authentik-sysd
```

4. Confirm that the authentik Agent is installed:
```sh
ak
You should see a response that starts with: `authentik CLI v<version_number>`

## Enable device authentication

To enable [device authentication features](../../device-authentication/index.mdx), the device must be connected to an authentik deployment. To do so, follow these steps:

1. Open a Terminal session and run the following command:

```sh
ak config setup --authentik-url https://authentik.company
```

> 2. A browser will open and direct you to the authentik login page. Once authenticated, the authentik Agent will be configured.

Reviewer 2: You have a couple options here... your Step 2 is not really a step, so it doesn't need to be numbered. Or, you can make it into a step by telling them to log in. something like.... "When you are redirected to the login page, enter your credentials. After authentication, the agent will be configured."

Basic giuodelines are to number the steps, then indent any extra info such as The browser will open and..."

And if there is only one step, as in this case (potentially) use a bullet point for the first and only steps.

## Enable device compliance and SSH access

To enable [device compliance features](../../device-compliance/index.mdx) and the device [accepting SSH connections](../../device-authentication/ssh-authentication.mdx), you must join the device to an authentik domain. This can be done via the CLI or by editing a configuration file.

### CLI

1. Open a Terminal session and run the following command:

```sh
ak-sysd domains join <deployment_name> --authentik-url https://authentik.company
```

- `deployment_name` is the name that will be used to identify the authentik deployment on the device.
- `https://authentik.company` is the fully qualified domain name of the authentik deployment.

2. (TODO)

### Configuration file

> 1. Create the following file: `/etc/authentik/domains/ak.json`

Reviewer 2: Where should they create this file, which dir?
